=> index.gmi back

# Keyboard Mind Rebind

## Keys are numerous, I vow to bind them.

I am typing this one letter at a time bevause that is the best I van do. The C key still eludes me and my thumbs are vonfused and tired. I have a new keyboard, whivh is all I really should need to say but there is more.

Sinve approximately 2016 I have done most of my typing on a Mivrosoft Ergonomiv Keyboard.

Wait, stop. I know it would be so muvh more epiv if I wrote this whole thing on the new board, but I only have so muvh time in my day...

OK, there.

This little Microsoft Erognomic Keyboard has been great. I love it. It is sweet and flat and quiet. And it significantly eased the pains induced from full day macbook laptop keyboard hell. And it was pretty cheap! I want you to know, my little MEK, this isn't about you! It's about me.

God where was I what the fuck am I trying to say? Like:

That is to say: typing is important to me, which, I guess, makes keyboards important to me.

I have never really cared about switches (cherry? brown? diesel!?), angles, bolsters, LEDS, layouts, or anything like that. I don't want to be in pain, and (though I feel somewhat embarassed to say it for some reason) that's about it. Every once in a while I think about Dvorak. And then, as I am not currently in pain, I stop. Dvorak is Metal though. One day.

But painlessness is not really all I care about. What I care about (in the absence of pain) is my relationship to words. 

Every few months I catch myself checking out some 

