=> index.gmi < index

# Math Person
### 2023-11-02

> "No gaining idea" - Shunryu Suzuki

## Anxiety

I live in (what I find to be) a strange state of paradox. I have an undergraduate degree in mathematics and a masters degree in statistics. And yet I have near-paralyzing math-performance anxiety. Any time I am asked to do a math problem in an assessment context my heart rate skyrockets and my mind goes blank. It is embarrassing and I don't like it! Like, wtf? I /should/ be good at this!

And now here I am, in the midst of a job search for a swe position and, guess what: the technical interview process is exactly the kind of situation that makes me most anxious. Great. Love it.

Of course, I knew this going in, but I'm now at the point where I really need to find a way to deal with this mind state. Last week I had a mock interview and was told:

> "Given your background, they [interviewers] are going to find your performance disappointing"

Or something like that. Whatever it was, it felt like [expletive] to hear. I KNOW I am [expletive] at these situations - what I'd like to know is how to get better. My mock-interviewer told me to do a hundred leetcode problems. I don't fault that answer, but given my particular anxieties, I think I need a little more hand holding.

So I'll hold my own hand!

## Why?

For the past few years, whenever this issue has come up, it's always arisen with the questions 'why the [expletive] am I like this?' and 'why is this happening to me?'.

As students of Zen, we are cautioned against 'why' questions. It isn't that questions like 'Why is this happening?' and 'Why am I like this?' are invalid, they just aren't a part of Zen practice. They have a hungry energy that is easy to get lost in. 


Last week, in a mock technical interview 







## Math



I was immersed in a culture of mathematics from 2007-2011, 2013-2014, and again from 2017-2018.

I have had so many opportunities to do math. I have done so many path problems. But now, at this moment, it has been quite a while and I am out of practice.

To do mathematics. To be good at mathematics. To be intelligent. I find it interesting that these statements, somehow, connote one another. 

On a few occasions I have been told to practice. That mathematics isn't just some innate power, but a muscle one can strengthen. It is odd, because that is the only frame of looking at mathemtics that doesn't leave me feeling anxious. if mathematics is a practice, then like Zen practice, I should have no gaining idea. Unfortunately, I found the culture of mathematics, at the time of my education, to not, really provide support for this interpretation. 

When I first started doing mathematics, I loved it for its own sake. Calculus, abstract geometry, group theory, analysis, etc - the higher-ed subjects were so lovely. And in the beginning, I didn't really know about jobs, or competition (I attended fairly small, culturally quite supportive institutions... at first). I didn't have the words then, and sure I wanted to be a 'good' mathematician, but really, all I did was practice. I went to class and I solved problems. That was good enough for me. There was no, tangible end goal, certainly not one I was particularly worried about as a college sophomore.

In graduate school, even in the last year or so of undergrad, things began to fray. It became clear that what people really valued was not a person's love and excitement for mathematics, but their ability, their dexterity and strength in solving problems. Now I needed to be good to be valuable. I cannot explain the ramifications of this subtle psychological shift, but they were significant.

My one year in math grad school was a difficult time for me. It was a time of deep emotional rifts, both in the classroom and out. I don't know if I was simply not mature enough to handle it at the time, or if it was just the wrong time to be pursuing such an intense, intellectual discipline. I felt deeply hurt and deeply lost.





## Person



## Onward



### _()_ - Yoni